# Bearer Authorization

## Write the following steps in the correct order

- Register your application to get a client_id and client_secret
- Ask the client if they want to sign in via a third party
- Redirect to a third party authentication endpoint
- Make a request to the third-party API endpoint
- Receive authorization code
- Make a request to the access token endpoint
- Receive access token

---

## What can you do with an authorization code ?

_The only thing you can do with the authorization code is to make a request to get an access token_

---

## What can you do with an access token?

_The access token represents the authorization of a specific application to access specific parts of a user's data. Access tokens must be kept confidential in transit and in storage._

---

## What’s a benefit of using OAuth instead of your own basic authentication?

_It allows limited access to the user's data and allows accessing when authorization tokens expire. It has ability to share data for users without having to release personal information. It is easier to implement and provides stronger authentication_

---

## Vocabulary Terms

| Word                    | Definition                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Client ID               | is a unique eight-digit number generated by the depository participants to easily identify their clients                                                                            |
| Client Secret           | is a secret known only to the OAuth Client and the Authorization Server                                                                                                             |
| Authentication Endpoint | i is a security mechanism designed to ensure that only authorized devices can connect to a given network, site or service                                                           |
| Access Token Endpoint   | is where apps make a request to get an access token for a user.                                                                                                                     |
| API Endpoint            | is a point at which an application program interface (API) -- the code that allows two software programs to communicate with each other -- connects with the software program.      |
| Authorization Code      | is a temporary code that the client will exchange for an access token.                                                                                                              |
| Access Token            | is an object encapsulating the security identity of a process or thread. A token is used to make security decisions and to store tamper-proof information about some system entity. |

---

## JWTs

_`A JSON Web Token (JWT)` is a JSON object encoded as a long string. We use
them to identify users. It’s similar to a passport or driver’s license. It includes a few public properties about a user in its payload. These properties cannot be
tampered because doing so requires re-generating the digital signature._

- When the user logs in, we generate a JWT on the server and return it to the
  client. We store this token on the client and send it to the server every time we
  need to call an API endpoint that is only accessible to authenticated users.

- To generate JSON Web Tokens in an Express app use jsonwebtoken package.

**Generating a JWT**

`const jwt = require(‘jsonwebtoken’);`

`const token = jwt.sign({ _id: user._id}, ‘privateKey’);`

- Never store private keys and other secrets in your codebase. Store them in
  environment variables. Use the config package to read application settings
  stored in environment variables.

- When appropriate, encapsulate logic in Mongoose models:

**Adding a method to a Mongoose model**

userSchema.methods.generateAuthToken = function() {
}

const token = user.generateAuthToken()

- Implement authorization using a middleware function. Return a 401 error
  (unauthorized) if the client doesn’t send a valid token. Return 403 (forbidden) if
  the user provided a valid token but is not allowed to perform the given operation.

- You don’t need to implement logging out on the server. Implement it on the client
  by simply removing the JWT from the client.

- Do not store a JWT in plain text in a database. This is similar to storing users’
  passports or drivers license in a room. Anyone who has access to that room can
  steal these passports. Store JWTs on the client. If you have a strong reason for
  storing them on the server, make sure to encrypt them before storing them in a
  database.

---

# THE END
