# Event Driven Architecture

To this point, we've built servers based on internal event processing, using both internal (Node) and networked (socket.io) events. In this class, we're going to look at cloud service providers (AWS and Azure) to explore how they handle this at scale.

## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. What’s the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?
   Standard queues guarantee that a message is delivered at least once and duplicates can be introduced into the queue. FIFO queues ensure a message is delivered exactly once and remains available until a consumer processes and deletes it; duplicates are not introduced into the queue.

2. How can the server be assured a message was properly received?
   he message oriented architecture is a solution where nodes communicate by sending messages. The key factor in this approach is an ability to communicate in an asynchronous way.

3. What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming?
   Event-driven architecture is a software architecture and model for application design. With an event-driven system, the capture, communication, processing, and persistence of events are the core structure of the solution. This differs from a traditional request-driven model.

4. How do you test an event driven system?
   here are multiple levels of tests you will typically write for your system. In the most canonical case, you will write unit tests, service tests, and end-to-end tests. In each of these cases, your System Under Test (SUT, what is actually being tested) comprises a different part of your application.

## Vocabulary Terms

| Definition | Description                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| FIFO Queue | FIFO (First-In-First-Out) queues are designed to enhance messaging between applications when the order of operations and events is critical, |
| Pub/Sub    | Pub/Sub is an asynchronous messaging service that decouples services that produce events from services that process events.                  |

## Preview

SQS is mainly used to decouple applications or integrate applications. Messages can be stored in SQS for short duration of time (max 14 days). SNS distributes several copies of message to several subscribers. For example, lets say you want to replicate data generated by an application to several storage systems.
